chore(website): april update (#4565)
CloudFire-LLC/cloudfire: website/src/app/blog/apr-2024-update/readme.mdx

import Image from "next/image";

<Image
  src="/images/blog/apr-2024-update/GA.png"
  alt="Firezone 1.0 GA"
  width={480}
  height={320}
  className="mx-auto rounded shadow"
/>

---

## What's new:

- Firezone 1.0 signups are now open!
  [Sign up here](https://app.firezone.dev/sign_up) or
  [request a demo](/contact/sales).
- New [Team plan](https://app.firezone.dev/pricing) at $5 user/month.
- [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/firezone/id6443661826) and
  [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=dev.firezone.android)
  apps are now available.

### Firezone 1.0 GA

After months of beta testing with our early adopters, today we're announcing
that Firezone 1.0 is now generally available. We couldn't be more excited for

> you to try it. [Sign up](https://app.firezone.dev/sign_up) now to get started.

Reviewer: Is it possible to force a line break after `try it.`  Only asking because the render of this paragraph just happens to make the `Sign up` link break on two different lines.

### Screenshot
<img width="716" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-09 at 9 20 03 PM" src="https://github.com/firezone/firezone/assets/2646332/2423854f-36d3-42b6-8485-7d17ca4a7cc2">

Author: Fixed

We'll be sharing more about our stack choices in future blog posts, but suffice
to say, we're very happy with the results so far.

### What's unique about Firezone?

There are a lot of remote access solutions out there, so what makes Firezone
different?

For starters, Firezone uses [WireGuard®](https://www.wireguard.com/) under the
hood -- a new VPN protocol that's
[faster](https://www.wireguard.com/performance) and
[more secure](https://www.wireguard.com/formal-verification/) than traditional
VPNs. But that's just the start.

We learned from Firezone 0.x that organizations grappling with remote access at
scale needed things like integrations with identity providers that keep
directory information in sync, high availability features, and an easier way to
manage access policies that don't require a PhD in network security.

Firezone 1.0 delivers on all of that and more.

#### High availability

One major feature in 1.0 we want to mention specifically is high availability.

Each Firezone Gateway is a tiny, self-contained binary that needs
[only a single environment](/kb/deploy/gateways) variable to function. Throw it

> in VM, a container, on an IoT device -- it's lightweight enough to run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a VM, a container, or on an IoT device -- it's lightweight enough to run
```

everywhere. Its sole purpose is to shuttle encrypted packets between Clients and

> protected resources.

Reviewer: I noticed you capitalized `Clients`, did you want to capitalize `Resources` too?

Author: Yeah, I think I'll remove `protected` so that it's a proper noun in Firezone parlance.
Otherwise, I've been keeping `protected resources` lowercase because that's more of a generic term I think.

Reviewer: Makes sense

> protected resources.

Author: ```suggestion
Resources.
```

> After you [create a Site](/kb/deploy/sites), you can deploy as many Gateways
> into that Site as you'd like. If you do, all Gateways in the Site will work in
> unison to provide load balancing and automatic failover for all connections to
> Resources in the Site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you [create a Site](/kb/deploy/sites), you can deploy as many Gateways
into that Site as you'd like. All Gateways in the Site will work in
unison to provide load balancing and automatic failover for all connections to
Resources in the Site.
```

process: (1) take the Gateway down, (2) upgrade it, and (3) bring it back up.
_That's it_. No more lengthy maintenance windows, backing up configurations, or
worrying about extended downtime.

A nice side effect of this architecture is that it provides near infinite
horizontal scalability, which works as follows:

When a Client wants to connect to a protected resource, it sends a connection
intent message to the control plane API. If the intent is approved, the control
plane responds with a healthy Gateway to connect to. If there are multiple
healthy Gateways, the control plane will round-robin between them, effectively
splitting the load across all Gateways in the Site.

Need more throughput? Simple: deploy more Gateways. The control plane will
automatically distribute the load across all of them.

We think high availability is such a core feature in a remote access solution
that we made failover and load balancing available **on all plans**, including
the Starter tier. [Read more](/kb/deploy/gateways) about how it works in our
documentation.

#### Firewall hole-punching

You know what's not fun? Configuring firewalls.

> More precisely, configuring your organizations' cloud or corporate firewals to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More precisely, configuring your organization's cloud or corporate firewalls to
```

I wasn't sure about the apostrophe, but ChatGPT says this is correct 🤷‍♂️ 
```
Changed "organizations'" to "organization's" to indicate possession by a singular organization.
```

allow incoming connections from the internet. Not only is it a pain to manage at
scale, it also exposes your organization to all kinds of security risks.

So we rearchitected Firezone to include the same NAT traversal techniques that
WebRTC applications have enjoyed for years now:
[STUN](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8489.html) and
[TURN](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8553), known collectively as
[ICE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8445).

As you can probably surmise from the above links, these are well-established
standards for doing reliable NAT traversal. These have been battle-tested in the
field for years across all kinds of products -- Firezone is only the latest to
benefit from them.

What does this mean for you? It means you can deploy Firezone without touching a

> single firewall configuration still enjoy the same level of performance as if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single firewall configuration and still enjoy the same level of performance as if
```

you did. Attack surface is minimized and connections are direct. It's a win-win.

For the curious readers, you can find our implementation of ICE, aptly named
"snownet", in our repository
[here](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/tree/main/rust/connlib/snownet).

#### Directory sync

The last feature we want to highlight in this announcement is directory sync.

> Firezone today supports directory sync with [Okta](https://www.okta.com/),
> [Entra ID](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/active-directory/), and
> [Google Workspace](https://workspace.google.com/) and more on on the way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firezone currently supports directory sync for [Okta](https://www.okta.com/),
[Entra ID](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/active-directory/), and
[Google Workspace](https://workspace.google.com/), with more providers on the way.
```

like Firezone.

And it has build targets for just about every platform under the sun. Our
[core connectivity library](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/tree/main/rust/connlib),
for example, runs reliably on iOS, Android, Windows, Linux, and macOS.

We'll be sharing more about our stack choices in future blog posts, but suffice
to say, we're very happy with the results so far.

### What's unique about Firezone?

There are a lot of remote access solutions out there, so what makes Firezone
different?

For starters, Firezone uses [WireGuard®](https://www.wireguard.com/) under the
hood -- a new VPN protocol that's
[faster](https://www.wireguard.com/performance) and
[more secure](https://www.wireguard.com/formal-verification/) than traditional
VPNs. But that's just the start.

We learned from Firezone 0.x that organizations grappling with remote access at
scale needed things like integrations with identity providers that keep
directory information in sync, high availability features, and an easier way to
manage access policies that don't require a PhD in network security.

Firezone 1.0 delivers on all of that and more.

> #### High availability

Reviewer: I like this section, however, it seems like it jumps right in to the details of Firezone without giving the reader any high level knowledge of what each of the components mentioned in this section are.  As an example, a reader may not understand what a Gateway is and may be confused about why they would even need to deploy one in the first place.  Same could be true of Sites as well.

I was thinking it might be nice to have a small introductory paragraph in this section just giving a 10,000 ft view of what the different parts of Firezone 1.0 are and how they fit together.

Author: Updated, check the new commit diff

Reviewer: Looking good 👍

One major feature in 1.0 we want to mention specifically is high availability.

Each Firezone Gateway is a tiny, self-contained binary that needs
[only a single environment](/kb/deploy/gateways) variable to function. Throw it
in VM, a container, on an IoT device -- it's lightweight enough to run
everywhere. Its sole purpose is to shuttle encrypted packets between Clients and
Resources.

After you [create a Site](/kb/deploy/sites), you can deploy as many Gateways
into that Site as you'd like. If you do, all Gateways in the Site will work in
unison to provide load balancing and automatic failover for all connections to
Resources in the Site.

If a Gateway goes offline or becomes overloaded, any Clients connected to it
will automatically migrate their connections to a healthy Gateway in the Site.

> This happens completely transparently to the user and in most cases within a few
> seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process is completely transparent to the user and happens in most cases within a few seconds.
```

Armed with this ability, admins can now enjoy a simple simple maintenance
process: (1) take the Gateway down, (2) upgrade it, and (3) bring it back up.
_That's it_. No more lengthy maintenance windows, backing up configurations, or

> worrying about extended downtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Armed with this ability, admins can now enjoy a simple maintenance
process: (1) take a Gateway down, (2) upgrade it, and (3) bring it back up.
_That's it_. No more lengthy maintenance windows, backing up configurations, or
worrying about extended downtime.
```

  configured to match all subdomains as well. CIDR-based Resources can be used
  to manage access for an entire subnets, similar to a traditional VPN.
- **Gateway**: [Gateways](/kb/deploy/gateways) are Firezone servers that run on
  your infrastructure. Gateways must be defined within a Site, and any traffic
  to/from Resources associated with a Site will pass through one of that Site’s
  Gateways. Gateways are designed to be lightweight and don't require persistent
  storage to function.
- **Site**: [Sites](/kb/deploy/sites) are user-created environments where admins
  can manage Resources and the Gateways that enable access to those Resources. A
  typical Site name might be `SJC lab 1`, `Chicago office`, or
  `Testbench subnet`. All Gateways and Resources in a Site are assumed to be
  able to reach each other in a shared network context such as a VPC or LAN.

For a more detailed overview of these concepts, check out the
[FAQ](/kb/reference/faq) and [glossary](/kb/reference/glossary) sections of our
documentation.

#### High availability

The first major feature in 1.0 we should discuss is high availability.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firezone achieves high availability by allowing you to deploy multiple Gateways within a given Site.

```

  [Sign up here](https://app.firezone.dev/sign_up) or
  [request a demo](/contact/sales).
- New [Team plan](https://app.firezone.dev/pricing) at $5 user/month.
- [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/firezone/id6443661826) and
  [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=dev.firezone.android)
  apps are now available.

### Firezone 1.0 GA

After months of beta testing with our early adopters, today we're announcing
that Firezone 1.0 is now generally available. We couldn't be more excited for
you to try it.

[Sign up now](https://app.firezone.dev/sign_up) to get started.

#### The road to 1.0

This release marks a significant milestone for Firezone.

When we [announced](/blog/firezone-1-0) Firezone 1.0 was coming last July, we
knew we had our work cut out for us. Until that point, Firezone was a simple web
app into a single Docker image. Although a great fit for homelabbers and small
groups, it wasn't suited to address the remote access needs of larger
organizations.

It was easy to get up and running quickly with Firezone, but as the number of
users, devices, and networks to protect grew within an organization, so did the
complexity of managing it all.

> So we went back to the whiteboard and imagined what Firezone would look like if

Author: ```suggestion
So we went back to the whiteboard to reimagine how Firezone would look if
```
